sentry prefect 2 blog post (#264)
coveo/source.coveo.com: _posts/2023-01-04-creating-custom-sentry-block-prefect-2.md

---
layout: post

title: "Creating a custom Sentry block using Prefect 2"

tags: [data engineering, prefect, sentry, monitoring, slack]

author:
  name: Jean-Michel Provencher
  bio: Staff Software Engineer & Team Lead, Data Platform
  twitter: jimprovencher
  image: jmprovencher.png
 

---

> In my last [blog post](https://source.coveo.com/2022/04/20/integrating-sentry-with-prefect-flows/), I described a practical way of integrating Sentry with Prefect 1 flows. Since then, [Prefect 2](https://docs.prefect.io/) was released, and with it, many interesting capabilities were introduced. I won't spend any time explaining why you should migrate to Prefect 2, but I suggest you have a look at the new features presented [here](https://docs.prefect.io/migration-guide/). If you're interested, I also created a step by step Github [repository](https://github.com/jmprovencher/prefect-tutorial) showcasing some new features available so that you can try it yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In my last [blog post](https://source.coveo.com/2022/04/20/integrating-sentry-with-prefect-flows/), I described a practical way of integrating Sentry with Prefect 1 flows. Since then, [Prefect 2](https://docs.prefect.io/) was released, and with it, many interesting capabilities were introduced. I won't spend time explaining why you should migrate to Prefect 2, but I suggest you have a look at the new features presented [here](https://docs.prefect.io/migration-guide/). If you're interested, I also created a step by step GitHub [repository](https://github.com/jmprovencher/prefect-tutorial) showcasing some of the new features available so that you can try it yourself.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: You're missing a `<!-- more -->` in your post, which is used to know when to fold the blogpost (otherwise your whole blogpost will be rendered on the front page)
I suggest you add it here

Author: you're totally right! Nice catch! :D

> One of the interesting new concept offered is [Blocks](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/blocks/?h=block). Blocks allow users to interface with external systems and configurations across flows. Prefect Cloud comes built-in with a collection of existing block types, but it also offers the possibility to define new block types. With that, it's possible to create reusable utilities that can be shared among flows and teams. This blog post will go step by step on how to create a custom Sentry block type that will automatically send notifications to Slack in case of a flow failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the interesting new concepts being offered is [Blocks](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/blocks/?h=block). Blocks allow users to interface with external systems and configurations across flows. Prefect Cloud comes built-in with a collection of existing block types, but it also offers the possibility to define new one's. With that, it's possible to create reusable utilities that can be shared among flows and teams. This blog post will provide a step by step plan as to how to create a custom Sentry block type that will automatically send notifications to Slack in case of a flow failure.
```

> One of the interesting new concepts being offered is [Blocks](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/blocks/?h=block). Blocks allow users to interface with external systems and configurations across flows. Prefect Cloud comes built-in with a collection of existing block types, but it also offers the possibility to define new one's. With that, it's possible to create reusable utilities that can be shared among flows and teams. This blog post will provide a step by step plan as to how to create a custom Sentry block type that will automatically send notifications to Slack in case of a flow failure.

Reviewer 2: new ones (no apostrophe)

## What Is Sentry?

> Sentry is an error monitoring tool that enables developer teams to be notified rapidly when issues happen in their 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry is an error monitoring tool that enables developer teams to be notified rapidly when an issue happen in their 
```

> Sentry is an error monitoring tool that enables developer teams to be notified rapidly when an issue happen in their 

Reviewer 2: when an issue happens (missing s)

applications. At Coveo, the usage of Sentry is already widespread and most R&D teams are using it in their 
services. 

Even though Prefect comes built-in with automation that allows notifications in Slack in the event of the failure of a flow,
we felt this was not providing us with enough insights regarding what went wrong without having to go through our 

> internal logs to investigate. Once our Prefect 2 migration was started, one the first thing we did was create this custom Sentry block type to offer an easy for engineering teams to be notified in the case of a failure in one of their flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
internal logs to investigate. Once our Prefect 2 migration was started, one the first things we did was create this custom Sentry block type to offer an easy way for engineering teams to be notified in the case of a failure in one of their flow.
```

Now that the custom Sentry block is defined, it's required to create it in Prefect Cloud so that it can be reused in flows. To do that, we can use Prefect Python API.

```python
"""Deployments for Custom Prefect Blocks"""
import logging

from src.blocks.sentry_block import SentryBlock, SENTRY_BLOCK_NAME

logging.getLogger().setLevel(logging.INFO)

base_flow_block = SentryBlock()

base_block_document_id = base_flow_block.save(SENTRY_BLOCK_NAME, overwrite=True)
logging.info(f"Successfully deployed sentry block with document id '{base_block_document_id}'.")

```

Running this script will result in the block creation in Prefect (assuming you are authenticated!).

![block-in-ui]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/2023-01-04-creating-custom-sentry-block-prefect-2/ui-block.png)

As you can see, the code example previously defined in the `SentryBlock` class is available in the UI! How neat is that!

> The Sentry block now created in Prefect, we can reuse it in any flow to automatically report on unexpected failures.

Reviewer 2: First clause is a bit awkward with the second clause. Rephrase to either "With the sentry block now created in Prefect, we can . . ." or "Now that the sentry block has been created in Prefect, we can . . ."
I have a slight preference for the first option

@task(name="Failure")
def task_always_failing():
    logger = get_run_logger()
    logger.info("The task will fail soon! 🙈")

    raise Exception("Oh no!")

@flow(timeout_seconds=60)
def sample_flow():
    base_block: SentryBlock = SentryBlock.load(SENTRY_BLOCK_NAME)
    base_block.initialize_sentry_block()
    task_always_failing()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    sample_flow()

```

As we can observe in the code above, any developer can now use these two simples lines and have Sentry initialized its flow.

```python
base_block: SentryBlock = SentryBlock.load(SENTRY_BLOCK_NAME)
base_block.initialize_sentry_block()
```

If we execute that flow that is designed to always fail, we'll receive a notification in Slack as soon as it fails.

![slack-notif]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/2023-01-04-creating-custom-sentry-block-prefect-2/slack-notif.png)

If we click on the link to go investigate the culprit in Sentry, it's possible to observe all the different tags and metadata that were added by the run context to make debugging easier.

![tags]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/2023-01-04-creating-custom-sentry-block-prefect-2/tags.png)

> As you can imagine, the possibility are infinite in terms of what you can accomplish with custom block types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can imagine, the possibilities are infinite in terms of what you can accomplish with custom block types.
```

---
layout: post

title: "Creating a custom Sentry block using Prefect 2"

tags: [data engineering, prefect, sentry, monitoring, slack]

author:
  name: Jean-Michel Provencher
  bio: Staff Software Engineer & Team Lead, Data Platform
  twitter: jimprovencher
  image: jmprovencher.png
 

---

In my last [blog post](https://source.coveo.com/2022/04/20/integrating-sentry-with-prefect-flows/), I described a practical way of integrating Sentry with Prefect 1 flows. Since then, [Prefect 2](https://docs.prefect.io/) was released, and with it, many interesting capabilities were introduced. I won't spend time explaining why you should migrate to Prefect 2, but I suggest you have a look at the new features presented [here](https://docs.prefect.io/migration-guide/). If you're interested, I also created a step by step GitHub [repository](https://github.com/jmprovencher/prefect-tutorial) showcasing some of the new features available so that you can try it yourself.

<!-- more -->

> One of the interesting new concepts being offered is [Blocks](https://docs.prefect.io/ui/blocks/?h=block). Blocks allow users to interface with external systems and configurations across flows. Prefect Cloud comes built-in with a collection of existing block types, but it also offers the possibility to define new ones. With that, it's possible to create reusable utilities that can be shared among flows and teams. This blog post will provide a step by step plan as to how to create a custom Sentry block type that will automatically send notifications to Slack in case of a flow failure.

Reviewer 3: is [Blocks]-> are [Blocks]? It's plural 🤷🏼

Author: not sure about this @amoreauCoveo what do you think ?

Author: its the "new concept" that is singular in my mind

Reviewer 2: In this scenario, "Blocks" is a concept. And the subject of the verb is "One"

## What Is Sentry?

Sentry is an error monitoring tool that enables developer teams to be notified rapidly when an issue happens in their 
applications. At Coveo, the usage of Sentry is already widespread and most R&D teams are using it in their 
services. 

Even though Prefect comes built-in with automation that allows notifications in Slack in the event of the failure of a flow,

> we felt this was not providing us with enough insights regarding what went wrong without having to go through our 

Reviewer 4: It might be worth expanding a bit here on what kind of insights Sentry provides (e.g. culprit/call stack traces, issue tracking/reporting, bug tagging/filtering) that we leverage over other monitoring/alerting tools like Prometheus or Grafana

Author: will do

> internal logs to investigate. Once our Prefect 2 migration was started, one the first things we did was create this custom Sentry block type to offer an easy way for engineering teams to be notified in the case of a failure in one of their flow.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
internal logs to investigate. Once our Prefect 2 migration was started, the first things we did was to create this custom Sentry block type to offer an easy way for engineering teams to be notified in the case of a failure in one of their flow.
```

Author: Not sure about this one. I want to state it was "one of the first things" I did, not THE first thing. Does that makes sense?
